---
permalink: /faq
---

# What is CompSoc?

We have [an about page](/about)! You can find it on one of the tabs above.

# What is the best programming language to learn first? What do you recommend?

This is not an easy question to answer because each language is suited for performing different
tasks, and very often one language can perform the exact same thing as another (with about the same
effort). However with the relatively recent and strong popularity of OOP based languages, it would
be good to start on one of those just to get your feet wet. For this purpose **Python** and **JavaScript**
are good candidates because they are amongst the most popular languages for beginning programmers
and have entire libraries of introductory books on them. The more daring would plunge off into C++
which maybe hard to use and timely to create programs in, but you will really begin to appreciate
the level of control you get through it. Though you really shouldn't worry about this at all,
because The University of Edinburgh's excellent first year Informatics course holds your hand
through Haskell and Java.

Not an Informatics Student? No problem there's loads of ways to learn computing, hey you can start
here!

# What is an stmu?

STMU is short for Student Tech Meet Up, a monthly meeting held by CompSoc in which we invite
industry experts, our academic staff and members of CompSoc to hold talks on computing topics. Some
of these may be showcasing a language that someone likes, introducing new theories/technologies/
methods, or companies giving a taste of what their company is like and how they do things (after all
students are an excellent source of interns/employees). The talks do not always have to computing
related, occasionally we may have talks on issues computing technologies have in the world in a
nontechnical-more-ethical manner, we may hold talks on teamwork methods for development teams, pass
advice from successful start ups.

# What are the workshops that CompSoc host, what kind are there?

Workshops are much like our STMUs except they are more oriented at expanding already present skills
or introducing new ones in interactive fashion. To give an example there may be Haskell workshops
near midterm exams to revise basic haskell syntax and conventions based on past experience in the
course (such as list comprehensions and how they work/are written). There also may be workshops on
common development tools like git or nmap.

Workshops are organised by volunteer members in CompSoc, so please look out in the events/news page
for announcements.

# What are hackathons?

Hackathons are often the most exciting times for CompSoc as this is the time when many of our
members come together and compete to produce code in a set amount of time. Hackathon participants
are usually given a theme to base their code around but are otherwise given complete freedom as to
what they create (as long it's nothing malicious). Winners and honorable mentions are given prizes
and the occasional job/internship offer from sponsors of the event... So hackathons are our battles
for glory and loot.
